### HPC Clusters Failure Prediction
#### 1. Characterization of Large Language Model Development in the Datacenter
Large Language Models (LLMs) have presented impressive performance across several transformative tasks. However, it is non-trivial to efficiently utilize large-scale cluster resources to develop LLMs, often riddled with numerous challenges such as frequent hardware failures, intricate parallelization strategies, and imbalanced resource utilization. In this paper, we present an in-depth characterization study of a six-month LLM development workload trace collected from our GPU datacenter Acme. Specifically, we investigate discrepancies between LLMs and prior task-specific Deep Learning (DL) workloads, explore resource utilization patterns, and identify the impact of various job failures. Our analysis summarizes hurdles we encountered and uncovers potential opportunities to optimize systems tailored for LLMs. Furthermore, we introduce our system efforts: (1) fault-tolerant pretraining, which enhances fault tolerance through LLM-involved failure diagnosis and automatic recovery. (2) decoupled scheduling for evaluation, which achieves timely performance feedback via trial decomposition and scheduling optimization.

#### 2. Desh: deep learning for system health prediction of lead times to failure in HPC
Today's large-scale supercomputers encounter faults on a daily basis. Exascale systems are likely to experience even higher fault rates due to increased component count and density. Triggering resilience-mitigating techniques remains a challenge due to the absence of well defined failure indicators. System logs consist of unstructured text that obscures essential system health information contained within. In this context, efficient failure prediction via log mining can enable proactive recovery mechanisms to increase reliability.This work aims to predict node failures that occur in supercomputing systems via long short-term memory (LSTM) networks that exploit recurrent neural networks (RNNs). Our framework, Desh1 (&lt;u&gt;De&lt;/u&gt;ep Learning for &lt;u&gt;S&lt;/u&gt;ystem &lt;u&gt;H&lt;/u&gt;ealth), diagnoses and predicts failures with short lead times. Desh identifies failure indicators with enhanced training and classification for generic applicability to logs from operating systems and software components without the need to modify any of them. Desh uses a novel three-phase deep learning approach to (1) train to recognize chains of log events leading to a failure, (2) re-train chain recognition of events augmented with expected lead times to failure, and (3) predict lead times during testing/inference deployment to predict which specific node fails in how many minutes. Desh obtains as high as 3 minutes average lead time with no less than 85% recall and 83% accuracy to take proactive actions on the failing nodes, which could be used to migrate computation to healthy nodes.

#### 3. Failure prediction using machine learning in a virtualised HPC system and application
Failure is an increasingly important issue in high performance computing and cloud systems. As large-scale systems continue to grow in scale and complexity, mitigating the impact of failure and providing accurate predictions with sufficient lead time remains a challenging research problem. Traditional existing fault-tolerance strategies such as regular check-pointing and replication are not adequate because of the emerging complexities of high performance computing systems. This necessitates the importance of having an effective as well as proactive failure management approach in place aimed at minimizing the effect of failure within the system. With the advent of machine learning techniques, the ability to learn from past information to predict future pattern of behaviours makes it possible to predict potential system failure more accurately. Thus, in this paper, we explore the predictive abilities of machine learning by applying a number of algorithms to improve the accuracy of failure prediction. We have developed a failure prediction model using time series and machine learning, and performed comparison based tests on the prediction accuracy. The primary algorithms we considered are the support vector machine (SVM), random forest (RF), k-nearest neighbors (KNN), classification and regression trees (CART) and linear discriminant analysis (LDA). Experimental results indicates that the average prediction accuracy of our model using SVM when predicting failure is 90% accurate and effective compared to other algorithms. This finding implies that our method can effectively predict all possible future system and application failures within the system.

#### 4. Large Language Models for Forecasting and Anomaly Detection: A Systematic Literature Review
This systematic literature review comprehensively examines the application of Large Language Models (LLMs) in forecasting and anomaly detection, highlighting the current state of research, inherent challenges, and prospective future directions. LLMs have demonstrated significant potential in parsing and analyzing extensive datasets to identify patterns, predict future events, and detect anomalous behavior across various domains. However, this review identifies several critical challenges that impede their broader adoption and effectiveness, including the reliance on vast historical datasets, issues with generalizability across different contexts, the phenomenon of model hallucinations, limitations within the models' knowledge boundaries, and the substantial computational resources required. Through detailed analysis, this review discusses potential solutions and strategies to overcome these obstacles, such as integrating multimodal data, advancements in learning methodologies, and emphasizing model explainability and computational efficiency. Moreover, this review outlines critical trends that are likely to shape the evolution of LLMs in these fields, including the push toward real-time processing, the importance of sustainable modeling practices, and the value of interdisciplinary collaboration. Conclusively, this review underscores the transformative impact LLMs could have on forecasting and anomaly detection while emphasizing the need for continuous innovation, ethical considerations, and practical solutions to realize their full potential.

#### 5. LogPrompt: A Log-based Anomaly Detection Framework Using Prompts
Log data are widely used in anomaly detection tasks of software system. At present, log anomaly detection methods based on deep learning have greatly progressed. However, the existing methods have the following limitations: (1) Logs are at large scale but labeled logs are rare, so training a detection model that requires a number of labeled log data from scratch is costly and impractical; (2) Log anomaly detection tasks usually need to comprehensively consider the semantic and sequential information in logs, but most of the current log anomaly detection frameworks only build models from either aspect; (3) Normal and abnormal logs are imbalanced in real world, which seriously reduces the detection recalls. This paper proposes a log anomaly detection framework called LogPrompt to solve the problems mentioned above. LogPrompt leverages prompts to guide the pretrained language model (PLM) to better learn the semantic and sequential information of logs, and avoids training a model from scratch. Even with few training data, the model achieves good detection performance. Moreover, it uses focal loss instead of cross entropy loss to guide the model optimization during training stage, for alleviating the class imbalance problem. Experiments show that LogPrompt can detect log anomalies more effectively and efficiently by prompts, and it can significantly improve the recalls and F1 scores.

#### 6. Machine Learning Models for GPU Error Prediction in a Large Scale HPC System
GPUs are widely deployed on large-scale HPC systems to provide powerful computational capability for scientific applications from various domains. As those applications are normally long-running, investigating the characteristics of GPU errors becomes imperative for reliability. In this paper, we first study the system conditions that trigger GPU errors using six-month trace data collected from a large-scale, operational HPC system. Then, we use machine learning to predict the occurrence of GPU errors, by taking advantage of temporal and spatial dependencies of the trace data. The resulting machine learning prediction framework is robust and accurate under different workloads.

#### 7. Monitoring and Predicting Hardware Failures in HPC Clusters with FTB-IPMI
Fault-detection and prediction in HPC clusters and Cloud-computing systems are increasingly challenging issues. Several system middleware such as job schedulers and MPI implementations provide support for both reactive and proactive mechanisms to tolerate faults. These techniques rely on external components such as system logs and infrastructure monitors to provide information about hardware/software failure either through detection, or as a prediction. However, these middleware work in isolation, without disseminating the knowledge of faults encountered. In this context, we propose a light-weight multithreaded service, namely FTB-IPMI, which provides distributed fault-monitoring using the Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI) and coordinated propagation of fault information using the Fault-Tolerance Backplane (FTB). In essence, it serves as a middleman between system hardware and the software stack by translating raw hardware events to structured software events and delivering it to any interested component using a publish-subscribe framework. Fault-predictors and other decision-making engines that rely on distributed failure information can beneﬁt from FTB-IPMI to facilitate proactive faulttolerance mechanisms such as preemptive job migration. We have developed a fault-prediction engine within MVAPICH2, an RDMA-based MPI implementation, to demonstrate this capability. Failure predictions made by this engine are used to trigger migration of processes from failing nodes to healthy spare nodes, thereby providing resilience to the MPI application. Experimental evaluation clearly indicates that a single instance of FTB-IPMI can scale to several hundreds of nodes with a remarkably low resource-utilization footprint. A deployment of FTB-IPMI that services a cluster with 128 compute-nodes, sweeps the entire cluster and collects IPMI sensor information on CPU temperature, system voltages and fan speeds in about 0.75 seconds. The average CPU utilization of this service running on a single node is 0.35%.

#### 8. Monitoring InfiniBand Networks to React Efficiently to Congestion
Current high-performance interconnection networks for high-performance computing and data-center systems incorporate mechanisms to prevent congestion from degrading network performance. Specifically, the popular InfiniBand specification defines a mechanism to reduce the injection rate of the traffic flows contributing to congestion. However, the efficiency of this mechanism depends on the values configured for certain parameters, that may be suitable for some congestion situations but not for others. Therefore, we think that these parameters should be reconfigured dynamically, based on accurate and updated information about the actual status of congestion. For that purpose, we have combined a light-weight platform monitoring tool (LIMITLESS) with the InfiniBand control software (OpenSM), so that the former provides the latter with enhanced knowledge about congestion to appropriately reconfigure the parameters driving the behavior of the congestion-control mechanism. Experiments performed in a real InfiniBand-based cluster confirm that this approach significantly reduces the number of wrong reactions to the congestion-control mechanism.

#### 9. Online Job Failure Prediction in an HPC System
Modern High Performance Computing (HPC) systems are complex machines, with major impacts on economy and society. Along with their computational capability, their energy consumption is also steadily raising, representing a critical issue given the ongoing environmental and energetic crisis. Therefore, developing strategies to optimize HPC system management has paramount importance, both to guarantee top-tier performance and to improve energy efficiency. One strategy is to act at the workload level and highlight the jobs that are most likely to fail, prior to their execution on the system. Jobs failing during their execution unnecessarily occupy resources which could delay other jobs, adversely affecting the system performance and energy consumption. In this paper, we study job failure prediction at submit-time using classical machine learning algorithms. Our novelty lies in (i) the combination of these algorithms with Natural Language Processing (NLP) tools to represent jobs and (ii) the design of the approach to work in an online fashion in a real system. The study is based on a dataset extracted from a production machine hosted at the HPC centre CINECA in Italy. Experimental results show that our approach is promising.

#### 10. Predicting GPU Failures With High Precision Under Deep Learning Workloads
Graphics processing units (GPUs) are the de facto standard for processing deep learning (DL) tasks. In large-scale GPU clusters, GPU failures are inevitable and may cause severe consequences. For example, GPU failures disrupt distributed training, crash inference services, and result in service level agreement violations. In this paper, we study the problem of predicting GPU failures using machine learning (ML) models to mitigate their damages.

#### 11. Recommending Root-Cause and Mitigation Steps for Cloud Incidents using Large Language Models
Incident management for cloud services is a complex process involving several steps and has a huge impact on both service health and developer productivity. On-call engineers require signiﬁcant amount of domain knowledge and manual effort for root causing and mitigation of production incidents. Recent advances in artiﬁcial intelligence has resulted in state-ofthe-art large language models like GPT-3.x (both GPT-3.0 and GPT-3.5), which have been used to solve a variety of problems ranging from question answering to text summarization. In this work, we do the ﬁrst large-scale study to evaluate the effectiveness of these models for helping engineers root cause and mitigate production incidents. We do a rigorous study at Microsoft, on more than 40,000 incidents and compare several large language models in zero-shot, ﬁne-tuned and multi-task setting using semantic and lexical metrics. Lastly, our human evaluation with actual incident owners show the efﬁcacy and future potential of using artiﬁcial intelligence for resolving cloud incidents.

#### 12. Time Machine: Generative Real-Time Model for Failure (and Lead Time) Prediction in HPC Systems
High Performance Computing (HPC) systems generate a large amount of unstructured/alphanumeric log messages that capture the health state of their components. Due to their design complexity, HPC systems often undergo failures that halt applications (e.g., weather prediction, aerodynamics simulation) execution. However, existing failure prediction methods, which typically seek to extract some information theoretic features, fail to scale both in terms of accuracy and prediction speed, limiting their adoption in real-time production systems. In this paper, differently from existing work and inspired by current transformer-based neural networks which have revolutionized the sequential learning in the natural language processing (NLP) tasks, we propose a novel scalable log-based, self-supervised model (i.e., no need for manual labels), called Time Machine 11A Time Machine allows us to travel into the future to observe the health state of HPC system and report back. Here, we travel into the log extension to report an upcoming failure., that predicts (i) forthcoming log events (ii) the upcoming failure and its location and (iii) the expected lead time to failure. Time Machine is designed by combining two stacks of transformer-decoders, each employing the self-attention mechanism. The first stack addresses the failure location by predicting the sequence of log events and then identifying if a failure event is part of that sequence. The lead time to predicted failure is addressed by the second stack. We evaluate Time Machine on four real-world HPC log datasets and compare it against three state-of-the-art failure prediction approaches. Results show that Time Machine significantly outperforms the related works on Bleu, Rouge, MCC, and F1-score in predicting forthcoming events, failure location, failure lead-time, with higher prediction speed.